---
sidebar_label: Verify Attack Vector Exists in SARIF
title: Verify Attack Vector Exists in SARIF
---  
# Verify Attack Vector Exists in SARIF  
**Type:** Rule  
**ID:** `sarif-attack-vectors`  
**Uses:** `sarif/verify-attack-vector@v2/rules`  
**Source:** [v2/rules/sarif/verify-attack-vector.yaml](https://github.com/scribe-public/sample-policies/blob/main/v2/rules/sarif/verify-attack-vector.yaml)  
**Rego Source:** [verify-attack-vector.rego](https://github.com/scribe-public/sample-policies/blob/main/v2/rules/sarif/verify-attack-vector.rego)  
**Labels:** SARIF  

Verify required evidence validates attack vectors in the SARIF report.

:::note 
This rule requires SARIF Evidence. See [here](https://deploy-preview-299--scribe-security.netlify.app/valint/sarif) for more details.  
::: 
:::tip 
Signed Evidence for this rule **IS NOT** required by default but is recommended.  
::: 
:::warning  
Rule requires evaluation with a target. Without one, it will be **disabled** unless the `--all-evidence` flag is provided.
::: 

## Usage example

```yaml
uses: sarif/verify-attack-vector@v2/rules
with:
  attack_vectors:
    - "stack buffer overflow"
  violations_threshold: 2
```

## Mitigation  
Helps prevent the deployment of images vulnerable to specific attack vectors by ensuring that any findings related to disallowed attack vectors are detected and flagged. This rule minimizes potential exploitation paths by enforcing that only acceptable vulnerability profiles are present.



## Description  
This rule evaluates the SARIF report produced by the Vulnerability Scanner to verify that vulnerabilities
associated with specific attack vectors are properly identified. The rule works as follows:

1. It iterates over the vulnerability results in the SARIF report (from `input.evidence.predicate.content.runs[0].results`).
2. For each result, it retrieves the corresponding rule definition from 
   `input.evidence.predicate.content.runs[0].tool.driver.rules` based on the result's ruleIndex.
3. The rule checks if the rule’s full description contains the phrase "The attack vector is" and whether it 
   includes any of the attack vectors specified in the configuration (`with.attack_vectors`).
4. If such a vulnerability is found and the total number of matching findings exceeds the configured threshold 
   (`with.violations_threshold`), a violation is recorded. The violation includes the rule identifier and the 
   associated description.

### **Evidence Requirements**

- Evidence must be provided in a generic format adhering to the SARIF 2.1.0 schema.
- The SARIF report should be generated by a tool like the Vulnerability Scanner.
- The report must include detailed rule definitions and descriptions that mention attack vectors.


## Evidence Requirements  
| Field | Value |
|-------|-------|
| signed | False |
| content_body_type | generic |
| target_type | data |
| predicate_type | http://docs.oasis-open.org/sarif/sarif/2.1.0 |

## Input Definitions  
| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| attack_vectors | array | False | List of attack vectors to check for in the SARIF report. |
| violations_threshold | integer | False | The maximum number of allowed attack vector violations. |

