---
sidebar_label: Trivy Blocklist CVE Check
title: Trivy Blocklist CVE Check
---  
# Trivy Blocklist CVE Check  
**Type:** Rule  
**ID:** `trivy-blocklist-cve`  
**Uses:** `sarif/trivy/blocklist-cve@v2/rules`  
**Source:** [v2/rules/sarif/trivy/blocklist-cve.yaml](https://github.com/scribe-public/sample-policies/v2/rules/sarif/trivy/blocklist-cve.yaml)  
**Rego Source:** [../blocklist-report.rego](https://github.com/scribe-public/sample-policies/v2/rules/sarif/trivy/../blocklist-report.rego)  
**Help:** https://scribe-security.netlify.app/docs/valint/generic#trivy-integration-example  
**Labels:** SARIF, Trivy  

Verify a CVE Blocklist against a SARIF report


## Mitigation  
Ensures that any vulnerabilities matching a predefined CVE blocklist are flagged, preventing images with known high-risk vulnerabilities from progressing through the pipeline.


:::tip 
Rule Result will be set as 'open' if evidence is missing.  
::: 
:::tip 
Signed Evidence for this rule **IS NOT** required by default but is recommended.  
::: 
:::info  
This rule scoped by product.  
:::  

## Description  
This rule processes the SARIF report produced by the Trivy Vulnerability Scanner to verify that no vulnerabilities 
matching a predefined blocklist of CVE identifiers are present beyond the allowed threshold. The evaluation proceeds as follows:

The rule iterates over the vulnerability results in the SARIF report (located under 
`input.evidence.predicate.content.runs[0].results`), and for each result, retrieves the corresponding rule definition from 
`input.evidence.predicate.content.runs[0].tool.driver.rules` based on the result's ruleIndex. It then checks if the result's 
ruleId contains any of the CVE identifiers provided in the `with.rule_ids` configuration parameter. If the total number of such 
findings exceeds the allowed threshold (specified by `with.violations_threshold`), a violation is recorded with details including 
the rule ID, severity (extracted from the rule’s properties), and the location where the vulnerability was detected.

**Evidence Requirements:**

- Evidence must be provided in a generic format adhering to the SARIF 2.1.0 schema.
- The SARIF report should be generated by the "Trivy Vulnerability Scanner".
- Evidence filtering based on the product must be applied as defined in the configuration.


## Evidence Requirements  
| Field | Value |
|-------|-------|
| signed | False |
| content_body_type | generic |
| target_type | data |
| predicate_type | http://docs.oasis-open.org/sarif/sarif/2.1.0 |
| tool | Trivy Vulnerability Scanner |
| filter-by | ['product'] |

## Rule Parameters (`with`)  
| Parameter | Default |
|-----------|---------|
| rule_ids | [] |
| violations_threshold | 0 |
